Playbook for the organization


Table of Contents
1. Alert Overview
2. Investigation steps
3. Escalation steps
4. Communication Plan 
5. Remediation Steps
6. Documentation Standards
7. Additional Information
8. References 


1. Alert Overview- 
1.1) Alert Information / Search / Trigger Conditions - 


Organization Home Page: 


To go to the Alerts Page: IT > Alerts > Alerts


2. Investigation Steps -
2.1) Step-by-step guide for investigating the alert - In the IT > Alerts > Alerts. Page. 
1. Select the time frame for the alerts on the left hand side of the page.
2. Click on Filters.
3. Select Shared with ME. 
4. Select Open Alerts
5. The alerts will be listed as below.
6. To triage the alerts, click on the magnifying glass on the left side of the alert, it will open a side panel on the left for information regarding to the DLP alert.
7. Scroll down the right pane and reach the DLP section. Clicking on the arrow next to the DLP ID would open another window with the alert details. Below is the incident page opened in a new tab window


2.2) Case for false positive: 
1. Verify the users’s email and domain to see if it is a vendor or employee.
2. If the user is an employee, verify if the data being sent out is to trusted vendor or not.refer to domain and email whitelists to confirm if user is permitted to do so or not.
3. Often in cases of the user being a contractor will upload excel sheets, source code and other files containing keywords like “submission“ or  “project“. If the file are being sent to trusted vendor domain or email ( verify using below provided vendor and user email whitelist), then it is safe to dismiss the alert.
4. There are cases where a user will upload sensitive documents into Smartsheet or other similar tools and share it with colleagues, in this instance, as the data is still within the Organization environment, it is safe to dismiss. 
5. There are users who have exceptions to share to cloud drives like Gdrive, OneDrive and Box to name a few, which can found in the users email exceptions list mentioned below.
6. To dismiss an alert, click on the box on the left most part of the alert. the click on the Acknowledge button and select Acknowledge Selected.


2.3) In the case of true positive:
1. Triage the alert, by clicking on In progress (1), to set the incident to the in progress state.
2. Then click on Select (2), to select the name of the analyst. DLP ID, DLP Incident False Positive Alert Triage
3. Select the analyst by name (3) to assign it to yourselves or others
4. The same incident can be accessed by visiting the Incidents page from the Homepage in Incidents > DLP
5. In case the user sends data outside the Organization environment e.g.: Personal email, GitHub, G drive or other Cloud drives, make sure the user is allowed as per user email exception lis. If the data was sent to an unapproved destination, move to contain the user on first priority, inform in the Required channels and create an incident ticket to track the issue. 


3. Escalation Procedures- 
3.1) Escalation paths and points of contact - 
After user containment, reach out to the [Privileged & Confidential] Chat Group.
4. Communication Plan - 
4.1) Message / Email Draft / POC for Communications 
- POC(Point of Contact) - Mat.Murdock@murdock.ai
- Message template: 
```
Hello Mat,
We have found 10+ alerts in NetSkope in which the user -xyz@murdock.ai- has uploaded the source codes (python files) to a GitHub repository (abcd-xyz.s3.amazonaws.com/).
 We did not find any exceptions for this user to upload in [Application Name e.g:GitHub]. The upload was done using his personal email id - xyx@gmail.com.
This is suspicious behavior and so we have contained the user- xyz@murdock.ai  from Okta, Jamf, Crowdstrike and in Intune.
Can you please help with escalating this to legal immediately as it was uploaded using personal email.


 Please let me know if any additional details are required.  
```


5. Remediation Steps -
5.1) Actions to take to remediate the issue identified by the alert - 
1. In case of a true positive case, contain the access of the user using the Containment Instructions .
2. Create a ticket to track the incidents progress.
3. Make sure to post the relevant details in [Privileged & Confidential] Chat Group.
5.2) Collaboration with other teams or departments for resolution, POC from IT Team and Template - Please refer to this confluence page on Who to Contact. 


6. Documentation Standards - 
To track the status of the true positive tickets, create a incident ticket.
1. Select the requestor name by the Murdock email ID ( Either Analyst / Other Requestor)
2. Select netskope for the configuration column.
3. Enter the User’s name by murdock email id.
4. Change the state from Draft to Analysis.
5. Select Analyst as Assigned Group.
6. Select Assigned to Analyst.
7. Type in a short description as a brief overview for the ticket.
8. Click on the Update button to create the Ticket. 
9. In the description, please give a full description of the incidents, such as attaching alert link, all relavant information related to this incident.
10. Update and attach needed notes and screenshot as the investigation proceeds.




7. Additional Information-
Other than the traditional method to gather information about a particular incident, there are other features that NetSkope provides in terms of IRM resolution: Home > IT. 
1. Applications & Application Events : The application page helps you manage apps, create policies, plus analyze and export app information. Applications page displays specified application events information.
2. Private apps & Websites: Private App page helps you determine which private apps are are visited, how often, plus analyze and export site information. Website page helps you determine which websites users are visiting, how often, plus analyze and export site information
3. Users: This page helps you manage your users, create policies, plus analyze, and export user information
4. Page Events & Network events: The Network events page enables you to monitor private app traffic and view relevant details, like who has access to what, from where, and for how long. Page Events page help you to monitor events by page.


8. References -
1. For finding the owners of the various SOC tools, please refer to the Checklist of Tools playbook.
2. NetSkope documentation can be found in this link: NetSkope Alerts Documentation


9. Users exception list -
The users mentioned here are allowed to share confidential informations with the outside domains.
1. john@mudock.ai
2. simmons@murdock.ai
3. john@murdock.ai
4. mat@murdock.ai


10. Domain Exception list - 
The exceptional users are only allowed to share the data to the below whitelisted domains among which some are of our clients and vendors. The transfer to any domain which isn’t listed here must be contaminated.
* google.com
* box.com
* github.com
* okta.com
* api.accuweather.com
* api.ipify.org
* apis.google.com
* app.plex.tv
* appengine.google.com
* bitbucket.org
* bokser.org
* books.google.com
* boston.cbslocal.com
* client.dropbox.com
* cloudflare.com
* cnbc.com
* cnn.com
* code.createjs.com
* code.google.com
* code.jquery.com
* code.responsivevoice.org










Password Policy and Standards Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)


1. Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information, systems and facilities by specifying acceptable usage of electronic messaging services within the Edelman environment by users/employees.
2. Distribution List
This standard guideline is accessible to all support resources in the Organization working for the project.
3. Scope
This policy is applicable to the following: 
• Users accessing information, systems and/or facilities; 
• Information collected, stored, processed or transmitted by or on behalf of,
• Systems owned or operated by or on behalf of, and.
• Facilities owned, leased, or operated by.
4. Policy
Passwords are an important aspect of computer security. They are the front line of protection for user accounts. A poorly chosen password may result in the compromise of corporate network. As such, users are responsible for taking the appropriate steps, as outlined below, to select and secure their passwords. 
   1. Users shall be required to create passwords that are strong, comply with this policy, and are easy to remember.
   2. Passwords must not be inserted into email messages or other electronic forms of communication.
   3. Passwords shall be remembered and not written down and stored by your keyboard or workstation.
   4. Passwords shall be treated as sensitive, confidential, and not shared with anyone including assistants or support. This includes tech support, management, or outside contractors. If problematic, refer to this document and direct the request to the Information Security Officer.
   5. Password strength testing may be performed on a periodic or random basis by the Information Security department or its delegates to test the integrity of passwords to ensure compliance to the information security policy.
   6. System and user-level passwords shall conform to the Standards listed below and are recommended to align with the Guidelines in Section 8.0. 


5. Procedure
   1. Reset a User’s password in Active Directory (AD) Before resetting the Active Directory user password, you need to log on a domain controller with administrator rights, then follow these steps:
      1. Click Start, click Control Panel, double-click Administrative Tools, and then double-click Active Directory Users and Computers.
      2. Navigate to the Users item of your Active Directory domain in the left pane.
      3. Right-click the domain user account you want to reset the password for in the right pane and select Reset Password
      4. Type a new password into the Password and Confirm Password boxes.
      5. Click OK. Done!


6. Password Standards
The general password reset standards include:
   2. User-level passwords shall be at least 7 alphanumeric characters long, contain both upper and lower characters and at least one digit (e.g. Password5 or Pa1sswd).
   3. User-level passwords (e.g. email, web, and workstation) shall be changed at least every 90 days and cannot be reused for 3 periods.
   4. User accounts that have system-level privileges granted through group memberships or through programs such as “sudo” must have a unique password from all other accounts held by that user
   5. System or service-level passwords shall be at least 15 alphanumeric characters long, contain both upper and lower characters and both digits and special characters (e.g. P@$$w0rdc#ang3! or adm!n3d3lm@nU$3r).
   6. System or service-level passwords (e.g. administrative, service accounts, named accounts) shall be changed at least once every 180 days.
   7. System or service-level accounts shall be locked out for a minimum of 5 minutes after 5 invalid password attempts.
   8. Where SNMP is used, the community strings must be defined as something other than the standard defaults of “public”, “private”, and “system” and must be different from the passwords used to log in interactively. A keyed hash must be used where available (e.g. SNMP v2). If this community string is to be used outside of a managed services provider, it must not be a globally used internal string.


7. Guidelines
   1. Choose a strong password each time you select a new password. Strong passwords have the following characteristics.
      1. Contain both upper and lower characters (e.g., a-z, A-Z)
      2. Have digits and special characters as well as letters (e.g., 0-9,!@#$%^&*)
   2. Change any assigned temporary passwords the first time you log in.
   3. Choose a seemingly random set of characters for your password. A trick for doing this is to choose the first letter of a song title, favorite book, or simple sentence. For example, "Joe's secret password for June." may become "j's$p4J."
   4. Logoff and/or "lock" your computer or application each time you walk away from your immediate work area.
   5. Use different passwords for your user account at and your personal accounts.
   6. Change your password(s) if you suspect there is a possibility your password has been compromised.
   7. Do not write your password down on a piece of paper or store it electronically unencrypted on any computer.
   8. Do not use a word contained in any dictionary (English or non-English).
   9. Do not use any variation of your username or any other personal data (birthdates, pet's name, street address, license plate number, Social Security number, etc.).
   10. Do not check the "Save Password" checkbox in any application (e.g. MS Outlook). This is especially important for laptop users that connect remotely. 
   11. Do not reveal a password in email, questionnaires, or security forms.
   12. Do not speak about a password in front of others or in a large group.
   13. Do not hint at the format of a password. (e.g. “my family name”)
   14. Do not use any of the password examples highlighted within this document.
   15. If someone demands a password, refer them to this document and direct them to the Information Security Team. 


8. Exceptions to the Policy
Exceptions to the guiding principles in this policy must be documented and formally approved by the Chief Information Officer. Policy exceptions must describe:
   1. The nature of the exception
   2. A reasonable explanation for why the policy exception is required
   3. Any risks created by the policy exception
   4. Evidence of approval by the IT Director/ Reporting Manager.
   
   
